Lesson 17. By the end of this chapter, you should be able to take into consideration how your own values and beliefs will affect professional practices. Be mindful of expressing beliefs and values and show sensitivity towards others. Recognise the consequences of letting values and beliefs have a negative effect on professional practice. Lesson 17. Values, beliefs and behaviour. Values are what an individual holds to be important in their life. They influence the way that people order their lives and how they make decisions. A belief can be defined as an acceptance that something is true. This acceptance can be based upon certainties, for example, scientific principles, probabilities or faiths. People go through life seeking sound reasons or evidence for these potential beliefs in their own way. Once they accept a belief as a truth, they are willing to defend it. It can be said to form part of their belief system. Behaviour, meanwhile, can simply be defined as the way in which an individual conducts his or herself, especially around other people. As humans, we all hold different values and beliefs, and we can all act in different ways. This combination of values, beliefs and behaviour has an enormous impact on our personal and professional development. It is important therefore to pay particular attention to how your own values, beliefs and behaviour affect your professional practice. The effect of values, beliefs and behaviour in practice. Your values, beliefs and behaviour are inevitably going to affect the way you work. Sometimes when the values are positive, this is a good thing. For example, if you value honesty, commitment and punctuality, then you're likelier to apply these qualities to your own work and this will only benefit the organisation in the long run. As well as honesty, commitment and punctuality, other positive values include accountability, integrity, consistency, personal growth, trust, excellence, achievement. However, applying your values and beliefs to your working life may not always be a good idea. Avoid imposing your values and beliefs on others. It is important that you refrain from imposing your own personal set of values and beliefs on the people you work with, as this can lead to alienation and conflict. Your colleagues will have their own values and beliefs, and only they should decide how to go about their work. Keep political, religious and spiritual beliefs to yourself. While everyone is free to believe what they wish, it is better to avoid expressing strong political, religious or spiritual beliefs in the clinic. Such subjects are divisive and can easily lead to friction and an inability to rebuild rapport. The consequences of allowing values, beliefs and behaviour to affect practice. Allowing your values, beliefs and behaviour to affect your clinical work is unprofessional and can have serious consequences. These consequences include a decline in clients, creating tension and conflicts with co-workers and supervisors, offending clients. If you continue to allow your values, beliefs and behaviour to affect your professional practice, you will become a liability to yourself and to others. You will risk alienating your peers and harming your reputation and therefore profit margins.
